---
layout: post
title: "New languages"
---

Having used Ruby for the past three weeks, it's been a little tough moving to Javascript ('JS'). There was a sort of elegance about Ruby's syntax that allowed it to be very readable and flexible to however you wanted to approach a problem.

One of the differences is that Ruby has [classes][1] and JS has constructor functions. This is partially because everything in Ruby is an object, so objects inherit from their superclasses. In JS, functions are first-class citizens.

When you create a Ruby class, it contains variables and methods for each instance of that object. JS has methods too, but they are normally functions unless they are included in constructor functions. These are essentially classes, but instead of being called attributes, they're called properties. Each of these properties can be both readable and writeable to my knowledge, while in Ruby, you can decide to make them readable, writeable, or both.

Overall, learning a new language was tough at first, but not so bad after you've used it for a while. The fundamental principles: algorithms and data structures you use are the similar, while the syntax may be a little different. With the growth of [linters][2] and advanced text editors like [Atom][3] in the modern age, it's a lot easier to see errors while programming. So don't be afraid to learn something new! It gets easier and easier each time!

[1]: /classes
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_(software)
[3]: https://atom.io/
